# Natural Language Processing: Apple VS Samsung Popularity

The number of internet users has exploded tremendously in the last decade as a result of technological advancements. The amount of data generated by people's engagement on the internet has increased dramatically. Amidst the noise is a wealth of knowledge regarding customers’ opinions and feedback that we can tap into. In this project, we step into the shoes of Apple's product management team and analyze customers' thoughts via natural language processing. Particularly, we are interested in answering these questions:

- How do the customers feel generally towards the products?
- What attributes drive customers' interest in purchasing the product?
- Could we predict whether a person adopts/uptakes the product based on the post?

Based on the results, we provide some recommendation for the product management team to act on.

## Dataset
Thanks to [Prof. David Steier](https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/faculty-research/profiles/steier-david) for contributing the dataset. This dataset consists of consumer posts, comments and reviews on Samsung Galaxy S8 and iPhone 8 and X models. The timeline of these posts precede the release of each of the phones by about a month and then continue on for a few months after the announcement (Samsung Galaxy S8 was released March 29, 2017; iPhone 8 and iPhone X were released Sep 22, 2017).

The data folder consist of two sets of files. One for all sources other than Twitter. The other set of files is Twitter only.

**Non-Twitter Data:**\
<br>
10 files named Streams (1).xlsx through Streams(10).xlsx. Each Excel file has a chunk of data for a few weeks at a time starting from 3/14 through 6/6 and from 9/13 through 10/31.
1. 3/14 to 3/31: Stream (2).xlsx
2. 4/1 to 4/19: Stream (3).xlsx
3. 9/13 to 9/19: Stream (4).xlsx
4. 9/20 to 9/27: Stream (5).xlsx
5. 9/28 to 10/9: Stream (6).xlsx
6. 10/10 to 10/24: Stream (7).xlsx
7. 10/25 to 10/31: Stream (8).xlsx
8. 4/20 to 5/3: Stream (9).xlsx
9. 5/4 to 5/25: Stream (10).xlsx
10. 5/26 to 6/6: Stream (11).xlsx

**Twitter Data**:
1. Data between 3/1/17 thru 6/30/17: T Only 3_1_2017 thru 6_30_2017 Random Stream (1).xlsx
2. Data between 9/1/17 thru 10/31/17: T Only 9_1_2017 thru 10_31_2017 Random Stream (1).xlsx

## Run

Download the jupyter notebook file. It contains the step-by-step details laying out our analysis.

## Contributors
Ashlyn Im\
Linda Hung\
Shih-Ting Sun\
Wan-Ju Yu

## Course Details
As a project of course:\
Institution: Carnegie Mellon University\
Term: 2022 Spring\
Code: 95-851 Data Science for Product Managers\
Instructor: Prof. David Steier
